and it's all about summarizing a problem
so what I'm going to walk you through
today is a quick recap of the TOEFL
speaking I'm going to explain to you
what they summarized problem task is
about you're going to practice it and
I'm going to give you a sample response
so just to recap as you remember the
TOEFL speaking has two sections
independent and integrated and the
integrated has four tasks and we're
going to be looking at this one right
here today task number five summary as a
problem so let me explain to you a bit
about that task you're going to hear a
conversation now the conversation might
be between two or three people and
usually the conversation is going to be
related to something to do with a campus
topic or an academic topic so when I say
a campus topic the problem could be
something like a change to the library
borrowing policy a change to a class or
a teacher it could be something that
basically the students don't agree with
ok so there's going to be some kind of
problem there and usually one of the
students is going to offer a couple of
different solutions so it's basically a
problem-solution conversation you're
going to have 30 seconds after hearing
the audio to prepare your response and
then you're going to have to speak for
60 seconds now as you speak you're going
to need to summarize the main problem so
what the students are discussing and
then you're going to have to also
explain these solutions that they
discussed but then you're going to
choose one solution that you think would
be the better option and explain why you
chose that so I'm going to walk you
through that now now as I keep
reiterating every week it's really
important to take notes your response is
going to be based on what you hear and
the best way to remember what you've
heard is by taking notes so that you can
use your notes in your preparation
alright so I'm going to give you a
couple of seconds now to quickly grab a
pen or pencil and piece of paper so that
you can take notes once I start playing
the audio okay I'm just going to give
you a few tips about note-taking for
listening what I like to do is on my
scratch paper draw two columns and the
column on the left is my main ideas
column and the column on my right are
the details so I know that task 5 is a
problem-solution conversation so I
usually put the problems and solutions
as the main idea and then in the details
I fill in the the information so what's
the problem
and then what solutions are discussed
now usually in this task you're going to
hear one problem and two solutions but
in this particular practice that I'm
giving you there are two separate
problems that are being discussed okay
and then two solutions associated with
them so I've actually begun the notes
for you so I've actually given you here
the main ideas and then as you listen
you can complete the details on your
note paper okay it's practice time so
I'm going to play for you a conversation
and you can use the notes that you just
created to note down the problems and
solutions that you hear being discussed
here goes with my supervisor he keeps
giving me very basic work it's so
repetitive and monotonous I can't
imagine doing the same thing for the
next two weeks hi
I am late hey Jenny that's okay take a
seat I was just telling mark that I'm
really bored with my internship they're
not giving me enough work I don't feel
like I'm learning anything
oh they're giving me too much work
I feel overloaded it's as if taking it
as an intern I'm very often shot but no
one else wants to do yeah it's better to
speak up the first thing you should do
is schedule a meeting their supervisor
and discuss system if you show some
competence in the basic casting giving
you then I'm sure they'll be happy to
give you some more challenging things to
do but also she told me she has a
meeting I have deadlines and just spoke
unto me I'm afraid that if I can't
finish it all she will give me a bad
grade and I won't pass this module well
Jenny I got two pieces of advice that
may help firstly you need to be able to
manage it to create a time management
this will help you set priority
deadlines provider find someone in the
company when you get along with ask for
guidance
I'm management and good mentor will help
you make your experience more enjoyable
yes there is someone that I could ask to
be my mentor he's been quite helpful so
far so mark you suggest that I should be
proactive my supervisor and take part in
projects that are interesting I should
find a mentor and my time venture that's
right come back and see me next week and
let me know remember stay focused on the
for the first okay how did you go with
that one we were able to take note of
the two main problems and the solutions
that were suggested all right let's
continue after you hear the audio you're
going to be presented with a question
prompt the prompt is basically going to
tell you what you have to do so in this
case the prompt is the speaker's discuss
problems with the students internships
briefly summarize the problems then
state which solutions you recommend and
why now for your preparation you should
use your notes so use the information in
your notes and then on a separate
scratch paper write your plan so in this
case my plan would be I would explain
the problem or problems and I would give
these solutions and then I would explain
which solution I would choose and why
okay so your notes are basically going
to guide your plan and then your plan is
going to guide your presentation now you
have 30 seconds on test aid for this
task to write your plan so using your
notes and a separate piece of paper I'm
going to give you 30 seconds to plan
your response to the question prompt
your time starts now
okay your time is up now I know that 30
seconds goes by really fast when you're
trying to prepare your response so you
want to just keep your notes really
really brief and just using almost one
word sort of answers of dot points in
your in your preparation so I'm going to
give you now an example of my
preparation so I've created in as many
different ways that you can do this you
don't have to use a flow chart but for
me I find that that's a good way of
organizing my thoughts so here I've got
problem one board with internship okay
the first student is said that they're
bored they're not getting enough work
and then the solutions there are two
suggested that the students schedule a
meeting and that the student get
involved in projects so out of these
solutions I would find out about current
projects that's the solution I would
choose and then I have to explain why
because the second problem is that the
sake of student was it having too much
work and couldn't keep up the two
solutions offered were to create a time
management plan and to find a mentor now
which one would I choose I would find a
mentor because so this is one way of
organizing my presentation or organizing
my ideas separating the problems looking
at the solutions associated with the
problem and then choosing one solution
and explaining why okay so hopefully
that helps you like I said there are
many different ways that you can that
you can organize your response but I
find that that's a useful way to sort of
keep my ideas logical and in order okay
so using your notes and your plan you're
now going to have 60 seconds to
beep your response out loud now although
I obviously can't hear you a good way of
practicing speaking is to speak out loud
within 60 seconds because it really
helps to give you an idea of how long 60
seconds is when you're speaking it's
very different to when you're speaking
in your mind okay your time starts now
and time is up how did you go with that
were you able to speak for the whole 60
seconds now it's important that you that
you give a full and role rounded
response so what you don't want to do is
keep sort of going back and forth to
fill in the time so that's why using for
example a flowchart of ideas is a good
way to structure your talk because it
gives you a beginning and middle and an
end and that kind of organization in
your presentation is really helpful
because it allows the examiner to really
follow what you're saying
rather than sort of going back and forth
and I finished too early and now I have
time and I need to go back and fill in
the time so you want to be really
careful with the structure and how you
structure your presentation so I'm now
going to give you my response you can
compare mine to yours okay so here goes
the students are discussing their
internships with their supervisor the
first student is bored and feeling
unchallenged the supervisor suggests
that they scheduled a meeting with their
manager and get involved in projects as
the manager is always busy I would
prefer to find out about current
projects and approach the project
managers to get involved that way I can
prove myself to the team the second
student is overworked in their
internship the supervisor suggests
creating a time management plan and
finding a mentor I would approach
someone in the company to be my mentor
as I feel that would provide a real
opportunity for me to learn and get
guidance as well as get recognition in
the company that mentor could also
potentially act as a referee for future
employment okay so that was my sample
response and I'm going to show you in a
moment what it looks like and we can
break it down sir
here I'm introducing the first problem
or what the students are discussing
actually the students are discussing
their internship so that's the topic you
know the main idea of the conversation
and then I talk about the first students
problem so the first student is feeling
bored and unchallenged that's the
problem now what are the solutions that
were suggested schedule a meeting and
get involved in projects and now which
one of those would I choose well because
the manager is always busy I would
prefer to find out about current
projects now I always have to explain
why I would choose that so because that
way I can prove myself to the team so
that's my reason now I introduce the
second problem the second student is
overworked what are the two solutions
creating a time management plan and
finding a mentor now which one of those
would I choose I would find a mentor and
then I must explain why and my reason is
I feel it would provide an opportunity
to learn and get recognition in the
company as well as have a potential
referee for future employment so I've
given a few reasons therefore why I
chose that solution all right so if I go
back to the prompt I've actually done
everything the prompt told me to I
discussed
I summarized the problems which were
being bored and being overworked the two
separate problems and then I talked
about the solutions stated which
solutions I would recommend and I
explained why so within that 60 seconds
I was able to answer all parts of the
prompt and and also support my choices
so that's really important as well that
you do that alright I'm going to now
take you through to the evaluation
as you're speaking the examiners are
listening for three different things
your delivery your language and your
topic development and it scored out over
four so each each criteria scored out of
four so to get forward delivery it means
your speech should be well paced so not
too fast the examiner needs to
understand what you're saying and
obviously not too slow and you want to
be careful not to have too many pauses
or silent moments where you're thinking
also your pronunciation should be nice
and clear as well language use so this
is listening out for correct grammar
structures and also vocabulary and then
you've got topic development so this is
related to clear progression of ideas so
that's I was talking about before in
relation to the structure and
organisation of your talk and you also
need to include appropriate details so
that means explanations and reasons all
right as well as connections between
ideas so for example the first speaker
the second speaker the first solution
the second solution so these things will
you connect your ideas and give it a
nice sense of cohesion
all right everyone thanks a lot for
joining me for the speaking task five
we'll be back again next week we're
speaking task six and yes I hope you
enjoyed it and look forward to seeing
you guys again next week bye